# Protoc HTTP Client Generator

- [Protoc HTTP Client Generator](#protoc-http-client-generator)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Features](#features)
    - [Go](#go)
  - [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
    - [example](#example)
    - [modules](#modules)
    - [pkg](#pkg)
    - [proto](#proto)
    - [templates](#templates)
  - [Roadmap](#roadmap)
  - [Build](#build)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Commands](#commands)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Client Customizations](#client-customizations)
    - [Proto Options](#proto-options)
    - [Google WellKnown Types](#google-wellknown-types)

## Overview

This library aims to help with language agnostic http-client generation through using protobufs as a single source of truth .

## Features

### Go

- **Automatic Request Retries** : The client retries behind the scenes in case a request fails, Heimdall , and returns the result if  only one o*f the retries are successful. Currently `constant` and `exponential` backoff is implemented for request retries.

- **Circuit-Breaking and Custom Client Fallback** :  In case there are too many failing requests are , or the number of requests sent are above a configured threshold the client "opens the circuit" for a short period of time. This prevents any more requests from being made and gives the downstream systems recovery time.
- **Client Customization** : all requests are variadic functions. Method used for customizing the request are defined for their respective client types :

`circuit-breaker client` : pkg/go/client/circuit-breaker/client.go
`basic client` : pkg/go/client/basic/client.go

## Directory Structure

### example

This directory contains the example proto file

### modules

This directory is contains protobuf compiler modules based on different target language implementation .
there is also a `proto` directory in which shared data structure models used by different compiler modules.
These data structures fields are populated by the modules for each language and then passed to the approportiate template.  

### pkg

This directory contains target language specific libraries used in generated methods .

### proto

this directory contains the proto file that has the plugin specific `options` and must be imported in any proto file that is passed to this plugin.

### templates

this directory contains language specific templates that the plugin uses to generate the code.

## Roadmap

- [ ] Generating Go code from proto files
  - [ ] Client Features
        - [x] request auto-retry
        - [x] circuit breaker
        - [x] custom fallback
  - [ ] authentication
        - [x] basic authentication
        - [ ] other authentication schemes
  - [x] Request Types
        - [x] POST request
        - [x] GET request
        - [x] PUT request
        - [x] DELETE request
        - [ ] others
- [ ] Generating TypeScript code from proto files
- [ ] Generating vanilla Javascript code from proto files
- [ ] Generating Rust code from proto files
- [ ] Generating Java code from proto files
- [ ] Generating C++ code from proto files

## Build

### Dependencies

We use [`mage`](https://github.com/magefile/mage) as our main build tool and [`packr`](https://github.com/gobuffalo/packr/) to embed static files (the templates).

install `mage` by running  :

```shell
go get -u -d -v github.com/magefile/mage
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/magefile/mage
go run bootstrap.go
```

install `packr` by running :

```shell
go get -u -v github.com/gobuffalo/packr/v2/...
go get -u -v github.com/gobuffalo/packr/v2/packr2
```

### Commands

- `mage build` : rebuild the plugin and install the binary
- `mage example` : rebuild the plugin and generate examples in `/example`
- `mage clean` : remove generated go files in example folder and clean up the files packer generates

## Usage

you can use `example/example.proto` and makefile in `example/` as a reference point for your own proto definitions.  

### Client Customizations

In the requests generated by the plugin there is **no retry mechanism by default**. To set the retry mechansim , first create a new backoff strategy either by implemtent your own by implementing `Backoff` interface defined in `pkg/go/backoff/shared`  or by calling the `New()` method on a predefined backoff strategy [ constant | exponential ] pacakge from `pkg/go/backoff`.
use `Retrier()` and pass it to the rpc method as `clientopt`

The circuit breaker client does not have a predefined fallback function. use `FallbackFunc()` and pass it to the rpc method as `clientopt`.

### Proto Options

after writing your proto file and importing `github.com/bifrostcloud/protoc-gen-httpclient/proto/types.proto` in it , you must define service specific and rpc specific options.

- service specific option :
  - `auth` : authentication scheme. currently, only `basic` is supported. if left blank , it would defualt to basic.
  - `endpoint` : service base endpoint. `target` defined in RPCs would be appended to this value
- method specific options :
  - `client_type` : client type can be `circuit-breaker` or `basic` . if left blank , it would default to  `basic`
  - `target` : this string would be appended to `endpoint` defiend in service option.
  - `useragent` : this is an optional field that sets request user agend
  - `method` : currently only `get` , `post` , `put` and `delete` requests are acceptable values in this field.

### Google WellKnown Types

Most often we found ourselves using Google Well-Known Types as defined in [`https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/google.protobuf`](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/docs/reference/google.protobuf). the following table is the filename (proto import) to package (go import) for `github.com/gogo/protobuf`

| File Name                               | Package                                             |
|-----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| `google/protobuf/any.proto`             | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/api.proto`             | google.golang.org/genproto/protobuf/api             |
| `google/protobuf/compiler/plugin.proto` | github.com/gogo/protobuf/protoc-gen-gogo/plugin     |
| `google/protobuf/descriptor.proto`      | github.com/gogo/protobuf/protoc-gen-gogo/descriptor |
| `google/protobuf/duration.proto`        | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/empty.proto`           | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/field_mask.proto`      | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/source_context.proto`  | google.golang.org/genproto/protobuf/source_context  |
| `google/protobuf/struct.proto`          | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/timestamp.proto`       | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
| `google/protobuf/type.proto`            | google.golang.org/genproto/protobuf/ptype           |
| `google/protobuf/wrappers.proto`        | github.com/gogo/protobuf/types                      |
